# What's New in 3.2.0

There are a number of new features and capabilities added to Maana Q 3.2.0.  Read more about those here:

## Ability to create a new Function and compose Functions within a KG

As the next phase in Q's visual Knowledge Modeling and application authoring experience, you can now create Function nodes in the Knowledge Graph, and then use the Function Graph to design and implement the capabilities that Function represents for your service.

### **Function Nodes**

These are the representation of queries or mutations in the service associated with the open workspace. They can be added by clicking the "Add Function" button in the top center of the workspace screen, which appears as a green Sigma icon. Once added to your graph, you can edit the function name, input fields, and single output field by double-clicking on the node, and then pressing the "Save" button in the bottom of the function node when finished.

At this point, the function node is a placeholder with no _implementation_ yet defined.

### **Function Graphs**

The Function Graph is where the _implementation_ of functions are defined, as compositions of other functions.

To create a Function Graph for a Function, select that Function in the workspace inventory and click the "Add Function Graph" button above the inventory, which appears as a green Sigma icon.

Opening the Function Graph makes it possible to begin function composition. By default, the Function Graph will only contain the Input and Output nodes, which correspond to the definitions that are created in the Knowledge Graph when creating the Function. You can add Functions to the graph and compose them to create a pipeline of transformations between the Input and Output types, by chaining together the function outputs and inputs.

Also, Kinds and Functions from Services other than the current Workspace are no longer editable within that Workspace. Kinds and Functions are only editable within the Workspace they originate from.

### **KindDB Model boilerplate**

You can now have access to all boilerplate Functions and Kinds, generated by the CKG service. These are also available for use in Function Composition.

{% hint style="info" %}
### **Additional Notes**

* Services such as Physical Quantity, Metalearning, Named Entity Recognition and Fact Recognition can be also used as a part of Function Composition feature. See tutorials: [https://github.com/maana-io/q-tutorials](https://github.com/maana-io/q-tutorials)
{% endhint %}

## Support for deletion of graph elements from the UI

You can now delete Kinds, Functions, Function Graphs, Query Graphs and Knowledge Graphs authored by them in their Workspace. You also have the ability to remove these and externally added services \(and their Kinds and Functions\) from their Workspace \(including the Inventory\).

## Field Classifier Assistant

The Field Classifier Service and Field Classifier Assistant are tools for setting strong types for columns of tabular data inside Maana. A column of data might contain names of people, but has the column name "contact". The field classifier can identify recommended classifications for this type of data and then you can select a type to enforce its classification. The strongly typed column is then ready to be used in services that only operate on specific types and/or be part of a larger logic and reasoning process. The Field Classifier Assistant provides a user interface to help simplify the experience of some aspects of the Field Classifier service.

Learn more:

{% page-ref page="../reference-guide/q-platform-and-microservices/maana-platform-services/field-classification/field-classifier.md" %}

## New Catalog Service

The Catalog Service is a single provider for service registration, maintenance of the catalog of services, and retrieval of service metadata. This replaces the current mechanisms in KPortal and Maana-Portal. Those components have been updated to pass through calls to Catalog Service. It enhances maintenance of the service catalog by supporting automated periodic refresh of service endpoint metadata and performing incremental updates rather than the delete-and-recreate method previously in place. This will not have a visible impact to end users of the Knowledge Portal.

## New Bot Action UI

This UI is located in one of the tabs in the Context panel and shows:

* Assistant name
* Status \(without automatic updating\)
* Start button to invoke the Assistant on the currently selected Kind
* Assistantbuttonthat opens the Assistant in the Preview panel
* Open the Assistant in the Preview panel

## Improvements to Loader Service

The Loader service has been revamped to address stability and load issues. The supported file formats are still the same but the overall stability has been vastly improved.

## Devs can now subscribe to bot actions in maana-portal and kportal

Each subscription available is for a specificBotAction\(e.g. fileAdded\) and has filters for limiting what is being subscribed to.

Filters include:

* serviceId
* kindId
* botActionId

## Improvements to Service Catalog

The UI has been updated to ignore the limit of a 1000 non-system services.

The total number of services displayed has been reduced to 100. Also implemented the search textbox.

## Faster deployment

The platform deployment has been revamped to break it down into separate stacks \(Infrastructure and telemetry, core platform, services\)

In addition, systemBootstrap now allows for passing in an array of service IDs. These IDs are checked against the array of default services.

## New MAANA Version Notification

Shows a Refresh Snack on User Login when there is a new version of MAANA available and allows you to switch to it.

## Backup & Restore

This version supports backup and restore and all workspaces and data will be preserved across subsequent releases.

{% hint style="warning" %}
A list of known 3.2.0 issues can be found [here](v3.1.5-known-issues/).
{% endhint %}

